MARCH 8th, 2005.
I'M CHRIS BURY.
THIS IS "NIGHTLINE."
TONIGHT, WE ENTER THE WORLD OF
BLOGS.
THEY UNDERCUT DAN RATHER'S
REPORTING AT CBS NEWS.
IT WAS A MISTAKE.
CBS NEWS DEEPLY REGRETS IT.
CAUSED A SENIOR NEWS
EXECUTIVE TO RESIGN.
ON THE RECORD, OFF THE
RECORD.
IT'S NOT A RULE.
IT'S A COURTESY YOU EXTEND.
AND EXPOSED A RIGHT WING
IMPOSTER IN THE WHITE HOUSE
PRESS CORPS.
HOW ARE YOU GOING TO WORK
WITH PEOPLE THAT HAVE DIVORCED
THEMSELVES FROM REALITY?
WHO ARE THEY?
WHERE DO THEY GET THEIR CLOUT?
THE 24-HOUR NEWS CYCLE ISN'T
WALTER CRONKITE ANYMORE.
IT'S A BRAWL.
IF YOU'RE GOING TO ENTER THE
BRAWL, YOU BLOODY MY NOSE, I'M
GOING TO BLOODY YOURS.
NEW RULES OR NO RULES?
LIKE ADOLESCENTS EVERYWHERE,
FLEDGLING FORMS OF THE MEDIA
MUST UNDERGO CERTAIN RITES OF
PASSAGE BEFORE THEY'RE TAKEN
SERIOUSLY.
THE WHITE HOUSE, FOR EXAMPLE,
BANNED TELEVISION CAMERAS FROM
PRESS CONFERENCES, UNTIL
PRESIDENT EISENHOWER RELENTED IN
1955.
THAT, OF COURSE, TURNED OUT TO
BE A PIVOTAL MOMENT FOR THE NEW
MEDIUM THAT WOULD FUNDAMENTALLY
CHANGE AMERICAN POLITICS.
THIS WEEK, THE WHITE HOUSE
MARKED ANOTHER RITE OF PASSAGE
FOR THE NEWEST MEDIA KIDS ON THE
BLOCK.
A YOUNG MAN RECEIVED THE FIRST
WHITE HOUSE CREDENTIAL FOR THE
SPECIFIC PURPOSE OF WRITING A
BLOG, SHORT FOR WEB LOG, OFTEN A
RUNNING COMMENTARY ON ONE TOPIC
OR ANOTHER.
BLOGGERS WERE FIRST GAD FLIES
WHO TYPED AWAY IN THEIR PAJAMAS.
BUT NOW THEY HAVE MADE A SPLASH
AND EARNED SOME RESPECT BY
IMMEDIATING THE ESTABLISHED
MEDIA TO THE PUNCH ON SEVERAL
NEWS STORIES.
AND THEIR REACH IS GROWING FAST.
32 MILLION AMERICANS READ BLOGS.
A JUMP OF NEARLY 60% IN 2004.
BUT WHAT TO MAKE OF THEM
EXACTLY?
ARE THEY EXPERTS?
JOURNALISTS?
SPIN DOCTORS?
ELECTRONIC LYNCH MOBS?
OR ALL OF THE ABOVE?
WE ASKED "NIGHTLINE"
CORRESPONDENT, JOHN DONVAN, TO
EXPLORE WHAT SOME CALL THE BLOG
SPHERE.
Reporter: CAMBRIDGE,
MASSACHUSETTS.
EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT, BLOGGERS
GATHER HERE IN A VINTAGE,
VICTORIAN HOUSE.
AND THEY BLOG.
ACTUALLY, THEY TALK.
EVERYONE WHO WRITES A BLOG,
IS PUTTING, YOU KNOW, OTHER
PEOPLE -- MAYBE WITHOUT THEM
KNOWING, INTO A PUBLIC RECORD.
Reporter: THEY TALK ABOUT
BLOGGING.
LET'S KEEP THIS INTO
PERSPECTIVE.
ONLY ONE-THIRD OF THE AMERICAN
PUBLIC KNOW WHAT A BLOG IS.
I'VE PROBABLY BEEN FIRED FROM
FOUR JOBS I HAVEN'T APPLIED FOR
YET.
Reporter: A COUPLE OF THEM
BLOG.
A ROUGH VERSION OF WHAT'S GOING
ON RIGHT IN FRONT OF THEM.
AND HEY, THERE ARE PEOPLE FROM
"NIGHTLINE" IN THE ROOM.
ARE YOU GOING TO BLOG OUR
PRESENCE HERE?
OH, YEAH.
Reporter: IT'S A BIZARRE
EXPERIENCE, BLOGGED BLOGGER,
DAVID WINEBERGER.
THE CAMERA GETS POINTED AROUND
TO THE PERSON WHO IS SPEAKING,
CHANGING EVERYTHING.
FALLS CHURCH, VIRGINIA.
SAME THING HAPPENED WHEN WE
INTERVIEWED A FORMER HIGH SCHOOL
TEACHER.
WE NEEDED PICTURES OF HER
BLOGGING.
SHE BLOGGED REAL-TIME, ONTO THE
INTERNET.
I'M TYPING RIGHT NOW, AS THEY
FILM ME TYPING.
I FEEL PRETTY STUPID DOING THIS.
JOHN DONVAN IS PRETTY NICE.
JOHN DONVAN, EQUALS ME.
THE GUY WHO IS TALKING RIGHT
NOW.
IT WAS NICE TO HEAR NICE.
ONE OF THE CAMBRIDGE BLOGGERS
SAID, THE "NIGHTLINE" GUY STRUCK
ME AS INCURRIOUS AND POMPOUS.
THAT WAS ALSO VIDEOTAPED BY A
BLOGGER.
WHO HAS PICTURES OF OUR CREW
GETTING PICTURES OF HIM.
OUR SELF-PROTECTION FOR
BLOGGERS.
Reporter: THIS IS A WEIRD
DANCE.
BLOGGERS WATCHING JOURNALISTS,
WATCHING BLOGGERS, WATCHING
JOURNALISTS.
MAYBE OUR OWN EXPERIENCE TO THIS
DIDN'T ADD UP TO MUCH IN ITSELF.
BUT BLOGS KEEP BUSTING INTO THE
NEWS BECAUSE A FEW TIMES, NOW,
THEY'VE DANCED SOME JOURNALISTS'
CAREERS RIGHT OFF A CLIFF.
I WANT TO SAY PERSONALLY AND
DIRECTLY, I'M SORRY.
Reporter: IT WAS BLOGGERS WHO
FIRST SNIFFED OUT SOMETHING
WRONG IN DAN RATHER'S REPORT ON
THE PRESIDENT'S MILITARY CAREER.
BLOGGERS SAID THAT EASON JORDAN
GAVE A TALK IN WHICH SOME
THOUGHT HE ACCUSED THE U.S.
MILITARY OF KILLING REPORTERS ON
PURPOSE.
AND BLOGGERS WHO HEARD A
REPORTER, NAMED JEFF GANNON, LOB
A BIG, FAT SOFTBALL TO GEORGE
BUSH.
HOW ARE YOU GOING TO WORK
WITH PEOPLE WHO SEEMED TO HAVE
DIVORCED THEMSELVES FROM
REALITY?
Reporter: AND THEN DISCOVERED
THAT JEFF GANNON IS ACTUALLY
JIM.
AND FOUND NAKED PICTURES OF HIM
ON THE INTERNET.
AND NOW, NONE OF THEM HAVE THEIR
OLD JOBS ANYMORE.
THAT'S BEEN A BIG STORY LINE
THESE PAST FEW MONTHS.
BLOGGERS WRECKING JOURNALISTS'
REPUTATIONS.
THE BLOGGERS SAY, KEEPING
JOURNALISM HONEST.
BUT BLOGGERS SAY THAT STORY
MISSES WHAT BLOGGING REALLY
REPRESENTS -- A QUANTUM LEAP IN
THE WAY PEOPLE CONNECT.
EMPOWERING THE INDIVIDUAL.
EMPOWERING IS A FAVORITE
THINKING BLOGGERS' WORD, LIKE NO
OTHER TECHNOLOGY BEFORE IT.
YOU'RE STARTING TO SEE
ACTIVIST GROUPS.
STARTING TO USE BLOGS AS A WAY
TO DEVELOP COMMUNITIES.
BECAUSE YOU CAN PUT YOUR
PRESENCE OUT THERE ON THE WEB.
AND PEOPLE CAN FIND YOU THAT YOU
DIDN'T KNOW EXISTED.
Reporter: CONSIDER THE
TIME-HONORED NEWSSTAND.
A DISPLAY OF PURE PUBLISHING
POWER.
IDEAS.
MAYBE TRUTH.
BUT TO GET SPACE IN THIS SPACE,
YOU NEED A PRINTING PRESS,
EMPLOYEES, A HEALTH PLAN.
IN SHORT, A LOT OF MONEY.
NOW, LOOK AT TWO COMPUTER
MONITORS ON A TABLE.
ONE SHOWS "THE NEW YORK TIMES"
WEBSITE.
THE OTHER, A BLOG.
WE CHOSE AT RONALD M, CALLED
BURNNY'S JUNK YARD SPORTS.
ABOUT HOW TO BE THRIFTY.
"THE TIMES" IS RICH.
BERNIE IS NOT.
BUT HIS POWER TO PUBLISH ON THE
INTERNET, IS EQUAL TO "THE
TIMES."
SPACE IN THIS SPACE, IS A
COMPUTER SCREEN.
AND A SCREEN IS A SCREEN IS A
SCREEN.
BLOGGING'S VERY SOCIAL.
I THINK -- I MEAN, SURE, THERE'S
THE STEREOTYPE OF THE GUYS IN
THEIR PAJAMAS, IN THEIR BASEMENT
NEVER GOING OUT AND JUST TALKING
TO THE WORLD ON THEIR COMPUTERS.
BUT IT'S ACTUALLY A VERY SOCIAL
ACTIVITY.
AND BLOGGERS ACTUALLY REALLY
LOVE TO MEET UP WITH ONE
ANOTHER.
IT'S TAKING PLACE ONLINE AND
ALLOWING PEOPLE TO FIND EACH
OTHER IN WAYS THAT THEY MIGHT
NOT EVER FIND, IF THE INTERNET
DIDN'T EXIST.
Reporter: AND THAT'S BECAUSE
OF ANOTHER CRITICAL PIECE OF
INTERNET TECHNOLOGY CALLED
LINKING.
IMAGINE YOU'RE IN A BOOKSTORE,
LOOKING THROUGH A BOOK YOU LIKE.
AND EVERY FEW PAGES, A DOOR
APPEARS.
AND WHEN YOU OPEN THAT DOOR,
YOU'RE TAKEN TO ANOTHER BOOK.
SAY, A NOVEL.
AND WHEN YOU LOOK THROUGH THAT
BOOK, EVERY FEW PAGES, THERE ARE
MORE DOORS.
AND YOU'RE TAKEN TO OTHER BOOKS.
SO ON AND SO ON.
THE NUMBER OF PATHWAYS YOU COULD
FOLLOW AND THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
YOU COULD MEET ARE ALMOST
INFINITE.
BLOGS ARE FULL OF THE LITTLE
DOORS.
CLICK ON A BLUE WORD IN A SEA OF
TEXT, AND IT TAKES YOU AWAY TO
ANOTHER BLOG PLACE.
ANOTHER SET OF PEOPLE AND IDEAS.
ANOTHER SET OF BLOGS.
WHILE IT MAY SEEM FRAGMENTED.
THERE ARE BLOGS ABOUT COOKING
AND FISHING, AND CATS.
THE POWER COMES FROM OPENING THE
DOORS.
WHEN THE PEOPLE OCCUPYING THE
FRAGMENTED WORLDS HOOK UP AND
DISCOVER WHAT THEY HAVE IN
COMMON.
OR AS MORA KUEHNE PUT IT --
WITH BLOGGING, YOU CAN
INTERACT WITH THE INFORMATION
YOU'RE GIVEN.
SO, THE AUDIENCE IS ACTUALLY
PART OF THE STORY BECAUSE THEY
CAN FACT-CHECK WHILE THEY'RE
READING.
THEY CAN WRITE BACK TO THE
PERSON WHO'S WRITING AND BECOME
PART OF THE STORY.
THEY CAN ADD TO THE STORY IN
THAT WAY.
Reporter: AND THAT, AS SHE
DISCOVERED FIRST-HAND, CAN BE
VERY POWERFUL.
WHEN WE COME BACK --
THE SCHOOLTEACHER AND THE
LEGISLATOR.
I WROTE AN E-MAIL TO THE
LEGISLATOR HIMSELF.
AND I ASKED HIM -- I'M TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND THIS BILL.
I REALLY HADN'T HAD ANY IDEA
THAT ANYTHING LIKE THAT WAS
GOING TO HAPPEN.
LOTS OF AUTHORITIES,
INCLUDING SOME GENUINE
DICTIONARY WRITERS, HAVE TAKEN A
CRACK AT DEFINING THE WORD
"BLOGGING."
NONE OF THE DEFINITIONS IS
SATISFYING.
USUALLY THEY SAY BLOG IS SHORT
HAND FOR WEB LOG.
IT'S AN ONLINE DIARY.
FREQUENTLY UPDATED.
WITH LINKS TO OTHER BLOGS OR
ARTICLES.
BUT THAT'S A LITTLE LIKE
EXPLAINING A FORMULA ONE RACER,
AS A LONG, METAL OBJECT WITH
WHEELS, ENGINE AND STRIPES ON
THE SIDE.
YOU NEED TO SEE ONE IN ACTION TO
GET WHAT IT CAN REALLY DO.
AND SO, THE STORY OF MORA
KUEHNE.
THAT'S HOWARD DEAN.
BUT RIGHT NEXT TO HIM, IS KUEHNE
WHO WAS A VOLUNTEER FOR DEAN AND
BELIEVES IN HIM, STILL.
LATELY, SHE'S PUT TEACHING ON
HOLD TO CARE FOR HER AILING
FATHER.
BUT NOT THE POLITICS.
SHE AND A GROUP OF OTHER LIBERAL
DEMOCRATS BEGAN A JOINT PROJECT.
TO DROP IN ON THE GOINGS ON OF
THE STATE LEGISLATURE IN
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA.
WE DECIDED TO READ EVERY BILL
THAT HAD BEEN PREFILED.
Reporter: EVERY BILL?
TALKING ABOUT HUNDREDS?
YEAH.
AND IT'S ACTUALLY -- IT'S NOT
THAT MUCH WORK.
BELIEVE IT OR NOT.
MOST BILLS ARE JUST A FEW
PARAGRAPHS LONG.
YOU CAN SKIM THROUGH PRETTY
QUICKLY.
AND NOTICE THE BILLS THAT ARE OF
INTEREST.
Reporter: BY THIS TIME, A
REPUBLICAN LEGISLATOR HAD
PROPOSED A LAW INTENDED, HE
EXPLAINS, TO ADDRESS AN AWFUL
KIND OF CRIME THAT HAD BEEN
KPLITED AT LEAST TWICE IN AND
NEAR HIS PART OF VIRGINIA.
WOMEN GIVING BIRTH AND THEN
ABANDONING THEIR CHILDREN TO
DIE.
THESE BABIES WERE FULL-TERM.
THEY WERE JUST LEFT TO DIE.
THE INTENT OF THE BILL WAS TO
REQUIRE ANY PERSON WHO HAD A
BABY OR STILL BORN TO HAVE TO
NOTIFY AUTHORITIES.
Reporter: YOU WERE LOOKING
THROUGH HUNDREDS OF BILLS?
YEAH.
Reporter: BILLS THAT WERE
GOING TO BE PROPOSED.
RIGHT.
Reporter: AND CAME ACROSS
THIS ONE.
RIGHT.
I CAN SEE FROM THE TITLE --
FETAL DEATH, REPORT BY MOTHER,
PENALTY.
I HAVE TO SAY THAT THE ALARM
BELLS WENT OFF.
Reporter: KUEHNE REALIZED
THAT IT WAS PROPOSING WHAT SHE
CONSIDERED A BIZARRE LEGAL
REQUIREMENT FOR WOMEN WHO LOSE A
FETUS WITHOUT A MEDICAL
PROFESSIONAL PRESENT.
SO, JUST WENT INTO THE CODE
OF VIRGINIA.
AND I TYPED IN THE PHRASE FETAL
DEATH.
THIS DELEGATE -- IT MEANS A
MISCARRIAGE.
ANYTIME DURING PREGNANCY, IF A
WOMAN LOST A PREGNANCY EARLY IN
PREGNANCY, SHE'D HAVE TO CALL A
POLICE.
Reporter: WITH JAIL TIME IF
THE CALL IS NOT MADE WITHIN 12
HOURS.
IT WAS, NOT WHAT HE MEANT AT
ALL.
NOW, GRANTED, THE BILL WAS
TOO BROADLY WRITTEN.
BUT WE WOULD HAVE TAKEN CARE OF
THAT, IN THE COMMITTEE STRUCTURE
DURING THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
SESSION.
SO, AFTER I DID, I'D SAY,
MAYBE TWO DAYS OF RESEARCH ON
THIS, I WROTE AN E-MAIL TO THE
LEGISLATOR HIMSELF.
AND I ASKED HIM -- I'M TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND THIS BILL.
AND I WAS ACTUALLY IN
ANNAPOLIS ON A CHESAPEAKE BAY
MEETING.
Reporter: WHAT ANSWER DID YOU
GET?
I DIDN'T KNOW SHE HAD SENT AN
E-MAIL.
I GOT NO ANSWER.
Reporter: AND SO, KUEHNE, WHO
LIKES TO BLOG, BLOGGED.
SHE LAID THE WHOLE THING OUT ON
TWO LIBERAL BLOGS.
WITH LINKS TO THE BILL.
AND TO THE LEGAL DEFINITION OF
FETAL DEATH.
AND BEING A GOOD DEMOCRAT, SHE
ADDED SOME EDITORIAL FLOURISH.
IF YOU LIVE IN OR NEAR THIS
DISTRICT, PLEASE TRY TO FIND
SOMEONE TO STAND AGAINST HIM
THIS YEAR.
AND THEN, CAME THE FORMULA ONE
MOMENT.
ANOTHER BLOG LINKED TO KUEHNE'S
ACCOUNT.
ONE WITH NOTHING TO DO WITH
POLITICS.
BUT FOCUSED ON HELPING WOMEN GET
PREGNANT.
AND IT WAS OFF TO THE RACES.
LINKS STARTED POPPING UP ON
BLOGS ALL OVER THE INTERNET.
FROM HO LISTIC WISDOM, TO
BLOGGING BABY.
IT WAS THOSE DOORS OPENING.
AND PEOPLE CROSSING IN THE
CORRIDORS.
THAT'S ONE OF THE THING ABOUT
THE BLOGSPHERE.
IT'S NOT ONE-DIMENSIONAL.
OTHER PEOPLE LINK TO ME.
AND THEY ADD THEIR OWN
INFORMATION TO ME.
Reporter: AND IF YOU'RE JOHN
COSGROVE AT ONE POINT, YOU
NOTICE SOMETHING.
BASICALLY, I STARTED GETTING
A LOT OF E-MAILS IN RELATION
RELATION TO THE BILL I'D BEEN
CARRYING.
I DIDN'T HAVE ANY IDEA THAT
ANYTHING LIKE THAT WAS GOING TO
HAPPEN.
Reporter: MORE THAN 500
E-MAILS CONVERGED ON VIRGINIA'S
STATE CAPITOL, FROM WOMEN ACROSS
THE COUNTRY, OUTRAGED AT WHAT
THIS PROPOSED LAW COULD LEAD TO.
AS THE HEADLINES NEXT
REPORTED -- COSGROVE WITHDREW
THE BILL.
A FACT CELEBRATED IN A
KUEHNE-WRITTEN BLOG.
WHEN YOU FOUND OUT HE HAD
WITHDRAWN THE BILL --
I WAS DELIGHTED.
IT WAS GREAT.
I MEAN, I THINK -- IT WAS PROOF
THAT ORDINARY CITIZENS CAN
REALLY MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN WHAT
OUR LEGISLATORS DO.
BUT I GOT HUNDREDS OF E-MAILS
FROM WOMEN WHO HAD NEVER BEEN
INVOLVED IN POLITICS.
WHO HAD NEVER WRITTEN TO A
LEGISLATOR BEFORE.
WHO HAD NEVER WRITTEN A LETTER
BEFORE.
WHO SAID, WE DID IT.
OH, MY GOD.
WE MADE THIS HAPPEN.
Reporter: THAT WAS IN
JANUARY.
AND IT HELPED MAKE MORA KUEHNE
SOMETHING OF A CELEBRITY IN
LIBERAL BLOGGING CIRCLES.
ALSO DEMONSTRATING THE
UNDERREPORTED STORY OUR
CAMBRIDGE FRIENDS KEPT
EMPHASIZING, THE POWER OF
BLOGGING TO INFORM, TO MOTIVATE,
TO ORGANIZE, SCATTERED
INDIVIDUALS WHO THEN DO SOME
GOOD.
BUT AS WE WOULD SEE, IN THIS
STORY, WHAT'S GOOD, AS EVER, IS
IN THE EYES OF THE BEHOLDER.
WHEN WE COME BACK --
WHO MAKES THE RULES IN THE
BLOGSPHERE.
I WAS DEALING WITH A PERSON
WHO HAS AN AUDIENCE.
I'M POSTING MY CONCERNS.
BUT IT'S NOT LIKE I KNOW THERE
ARE A MILLION PEOPLE
THOSE TWO COMPUTER MONITORS
ON A TABLE AGAIN.
THE ONE ON THE LEFT IS "THE NEW
YORK TIMES."
THE ONE ON THE RIGHT THIS TIME,
IS MORA KUEHNE'S BLOG.
THE BLOGG THAT CREATED A MOVEMENT
THAT STOPPED WHAT SHE CONSIDERED
A VERY BAD IDEA.
MEDIA ON THE LEFT.
AND ON THE RIGHT -- ALSO MEDIA?
TO JOHN COSGROVE, THAT'S EXACTLY
WHAT MORA KUEHNE IS, BECAUSE SHE
WROTE ABOUT HIM IN A PUBLIC
PLACE.
I WAS DEALING WITH A PERSON
WHO HAS AN AUDIENCE.
Reporter: THAT PLACES HER IN
THE MEDIA.
AND THE MEDIA HAS OBLIGATIONS.
THE BIG PROBLEM I HAVE WITH
WHAT HAPPENED THERE -- AND IT'S
THAT THAT PERSON, AGAIN, NEVER
CONTACTED ME.
I DON'T THINK THAT ANY
CITIZEN SHOULD HAVE TO WAIT FOR
A LEGISLATOR'S PERMISSION TO
SHARE HER CONCERNS ABOUT
LEGISLATION.
I MEAN, ONCE YOU INTRODUCE A
BILL INTO THE PUBLIC RECORD,
IT'S PUBLIC RECORD.
I'VE DEALT WITH TELEVISION
MEDIA.
AND I HAVE YET TO HAVE ONE
REPORTER RUN A STORY WITHOUT
RUNNING IT BY ME.
I TAKE IT FROM AN EDITORIAL
POSITION THAN I EXPECT ANY
REPORTER TO DO BECAUSE I'M AN
ACTIVIST.
Reporter: WELL, KUEHNE DID
SEND COSGROVE ONE E-MAIL.
THE ONE HE DIDN'T SEE FOR
SEVERAL DAYS.
BUT BEYOND THAT, THERE IS AN
ETHICAL QUESTION.
KUEHNE IS, AS SHE SAYS, A
PRIVATE CITIZEN.
WHOSE BLOG NEVER ATTRACTED MORE
THAN A FEW HUNDRED READERS ON A
REGULAR BASIS.
BUT IF SHE HAS THE POWER TO BE
READ AROUND THE WORLD, AS
EPISODE PROVES SHE HAS, IS SHE
JUST A PRIVATE CITIZEN?
DOES SHE HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO
TELL SOMEONE SHE'S WRITING ABOUT
THAT SHE HAS AN AUDIENCE?
I DON'T THIN SO.
Reporter: BECAUSE?
WE'RE NOT IN A SEPARATE
CATEGORY OF HUMAN BEINGS.
WE'RE JUST CITIZENS WITH OUR
CONCERN.
FRANKLY, MY WEBSITE GOT, MAYBE,
YOU KNOW, A FEW HUNDRED, AT MOST
HITS A DAY, BEFORE THIS
HAPPENED.
Reporter: FOR THE RECORD,
KUEHNE WAS SKRUB LOUSELY
ACCURATE, LINKING TO THE
ORIGINAL TEXT OF COSGROVE'S
BILL.
BUT AS HER STORY SPREAD, AT
INTERNET SPEED AND OTHERS ADDED
COMMENTARIES, INACCURACIES CREPT
IN.
IT BECOMES A GAME OF
TELEPHONE THAT YOU PLAYED IN THE
THIRD GRADE.
BY THE TIME THE 15th PERSON GETS
THE STORY.
THERE WERE WEBSITES THAT LINKED
TO MINE THAT DIDN'T GET THE
WHOLE STORY.
THEY GOT IT WRONG.
Reporter: AND THAT ACCOUNTS
FOR SOME OF WHAT COSGROVE
EXPERIENCED.
THE TONE OF THE E-MAILS WAS
EXTRAORDINARILY NASTY.
VERY VULGAR.
DISGUSTING LANGUAGE.
AND REALLY A TRUE
DISAPPOINTMENT.
IT WAS OBVIOUSLY THAR WERE
GETTING IT FOURTH-HAND OR
FIFTH-HAND.
MOST OF THEM HAD NO IDEA WHAT
THE BILL STATED OR HOW IT WAS
WRITTEN.
CERTAINLY, THEY WERE GETTING IT
FROM WEBSITES THAT HAD A
POLITICAL ISSUE OR A POLITICAL
AX TO GRIND.
Reporter: OF COURSE, PEOPLE
MANGLE THINGS THEY HEAR ON TV OR
READ IN THE NEWSPAPERS ALSO.
AND THAT'S NOT KUEHNE'S FAULT.
BUT ALL THESE ISSUES ARE THE
KINDS OF THINGS THE CAMBRIDGE
BLOGGERS SAY THE BLOGGING WORLD
STILL NEEDS TO FIGURE OUT FOR
ITSELF.
ONE MEMBER OF THE GROUP, A
MOTHER WHO BLOGS ABOUT BEING A
MOTHER, PUT IT THIS WAY --
I THINK WHAT WE'RE GOING
THROUGH IS A TYPE OF MEDIA
ADOLESCENCE.
I'M HOPING THE NEW TRANSPARENCY
BRINGS A NEW MATURITY.
EVEN GOSSIP COLUMNISTS HAVE
STANDARDS.
BLOGGERS -- WE'RE MAKING IT UP
AS WE GO ALONG.
Reporter: AND SO, THEY BLOG.
AND EVEN NOW, AS THIS
"NIGHTLINE" REPORT COMES TO A
CLOSE, BLOGGERS ARE BLOGGING
ABOUT IT.
AND DOORS ARE OPENING, WHO KNOWS
WHERE?
I'M JOHN DONVAN, FOR
"NIGHTLINE," IN WASHINGTON.
WHEN WE COME BACK --
WHAT THE BLOGGERS HAV
IN THE BLOGGING WORLD, AS
JOHN DONVAN REPORTED, THE
AUDIENCE IS OFTEN PART OF THE
PROCESS.
INDEED, THROUGHOUT TONIGHT'S
BROADCAST, SOME BLOGGERS WERE
DISCUSSING IT, ONLINE, IN
REAL-TIME.
EVEN AS THE IMAGES FLICKERED ON
THEIR TV SCREENS.
HERE'S A SAMPLE OF WHAT SOME OF
THEM HAD TO SAY -- "THEY WANT TO
REGULATE," SAID ONE WITH AN
EXCLAMATION POINT.
"SO FAR, PRETTY POSITIVE, EH?"
WROTE ANOTHER.
AND THIS, FROM THE
SCHOOLTEACHER
FEATURED IN TONIGHT'S REPORT --
AND ONE BLOGGER SEEMED TO THINK
THEY WERE ALL IN ON A SECRET.
YES, WE DID.
TO THEIR CREDIT, THEY'VE GIVEN
US, IN THE TRADITIONAL NEWS
BUSINESS, A SWIFT KICK IN THE
PANTS.
THIS FORCES ALL OF US TO BE MORE
CAREFUL, ACCURATE AND THOREAU.
IT'S TRUE THAT THE COLLECTIVE
EFFORT AND EXPERTISE OF THE
BLOGGING COMMUNITY IS INVALUABLE
TO BRING NEW INFORMATION TO
LIGHT ON ALMOST ANY SUBJECT.
WITH THAT SAID, THE BLINDING
SPEED OF THE BLOGGING WORLD AND
THE TENDENCY OF SOME BLOGGERS TO
SHOOT FIRST AND ASK QUESTIONS
LATER, SHOULD RAISE A YELLOW
FLAG.
YOU'D JOURNALISM, IS TEDIOUS.
THAT DOES NOT PRECLUDE BIG
MISTAKES THAT THE BLOGGERS HAVE
EXPOSED.
OVER TIME, SUCH WORK IS THE
PRICE OF CREDIBILITY.
AND THE NEW MEDIA KIDS ON THE
BLOCK NOW
SPECIAL AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED
NATIONS FOR REFUGEES, TAKING HER
CAUSE TO CAPITOL HILL.
AND THAT'S OUR REPORT
FOR TONIGHT.
I'M CHRIS BURY IN WASHINGTON.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT ABC NEWS,
GOOD NIGHT.
-- Captions by VITAC --